we don't associate extremism with the
outward appearance of academic
responsibilities we don't associate
extremism with the image of a
gray-haired elderly white man with a PhD
and yet extremism often arises from the
academic university context and the
other hand old and outmoded forms of
extremism unfashionable forms of
extremism like communism well the
university setting is often where those
extremist views go to die it's often
where they linger longest and where
seemingly respectable gray-haired men
with PhDs try to influence a new
generation with their old and outmoded
extremist views so you can't you can't
judge these things on the basis of
appearance alone in this video we're
gonna examine briefly two different
extremist views on climate change one
represented by dr. Peterson and the
other by the leaders of England's
extinction rebellion it's like okay well
what are we gonna do about global
warming well good luck figuring that out
I don't see a solution on the horizon I
look at beyond long Berg's work I really
liked the or in long burg I think he's a
real genius
what Bloomberg did was gather a team of
teams of economists multiple teams some
of whom were Nobel prize-winning
economists he had them assemble teams
he had them rank order development goals
in terms of the return on investment all
of the teams that he averaged across the
teams and came up with a final list and
and addressing global warming wasn't
even on the list you know maybe if you
if you increase child nutrition enough
and and you produce another I don't know
10 million geniuses as a consequence of
that and maybe well then I'll figure out
what to do about global warming I'm not
making this video to try and make how
I'm some sort of hero I'm just saying
I'm in prison and the fact of the matter
is
other things being equal it's not going
to be a big deal and also like it's not
as big a deal as like being a parent
right having a baby and all that stuff
because with one of my daughter's I was
like but every nigh to three o'clock in
the morning walking are up and down
carrying her up and down the kitchen I'm
sure many people we've got kids remember
this and all you're thinking for five or
ten years is when the hell am I gonna
get to sleep so compared with all that
right gang prison is no big deal like
the whole conventional campaigning thing
is not working it hasn't worked 30 years
and it's not gonna work it's just not
gonna happen this is massive how this is
gonna work is through mass economic
disruption economic disruption economic
disruption is breaking down the door
it's not pretty
it's not like well fall through
[Music]
I've got myself into prison because
that's what's necessary and the fact of
the matter is I'm sure there's loads of
people watching this video have loads of
people out there that are making all
these excuses and they're just excuses
you know I can't go to prison all that
sort of stuff you know because of my
family because of my career well the
fact of the matter is like you could get
arrested and go to prison and you could
lose your job if you lose a job like
then you lose job you get another one
it's not the end of the world you know
you talk to your partner you talk to
your family maybe you lose your partner
it's not the end of the world
you know life is hard people lose their
jobs all the time people split up all
the time it's not the end of the world
what's the end of the world is the end
of the world so and we're not gonna do a
damn thing about it either so it doesn't
really matter
so well what are we gonna do you're
gonna stop like having to eat you gonna
stop having electricity gonna stop
driving your cars
you're gonna stop taking trains it's
like you're not gonna stop using your
iphones you're not gonna do any of that
and no wonder so so we have this cliche
in english that a man with a hammer is
looking at every problem as if it were a
nail i think that cliche very
imperfectly describes a profound and
ongoing problem we have in politics
which is that people become attached to
a solution they think of that solution
in very hallowed ideological terms and
then they look around at the problem
they're looking for any excuse to apply
propound advance that solution that is
very clearly the case with the extremism
of extinction rebellion their whole
discourse about anti capitalism their
whole discourse about tearing down the
government and end
system that was a hammer they already
had in their pocket as a bunch of
left-wing hooligans that was that was a
methodology they were already
emotionally attached to and then they
see climate change and they're like oh
here's a chance to show everyone this
hammer we've got by beeping on this nail
now we have an interesting contrast here
it's Jordan Peterson I can't say it's a
hammer he's clinging on to me the hammer
is a little bit too active and muscular
an image of being attached to a a
methodology or a way of life but this
guy is just completely committed to
maintaining the bourgeois status quo
there is just no doubt in his mind that
it's impossible to have a society in
which people do not have cellular phones
and cars and all these other things all
the other I don't know enjoyable
accoutrement of Western civilization
specifically for the wealthier social
classes now I've lived in communist
countries and Laos and Cambodia both
were in a situation of kind of post war
post communist devastation and you can
learn a lot from that scenario I never
lived in Cuba I knew one guy who lived
in Cuba talked to me not two different
guys talked to me of what life in Cuba
was like but you know one of the funny
patterns you see in those countries were
at that time at least relatively
low-tech relatively simple life so there
are tons of people who prefer that way
of life you'll meet people from Sweden
and Denmark who move there and who say
that they're happy not owning a car you
know they're happy not having even air
conditioning and so on they may be
literally living in a in a grass hut
with either no electricity or very
limited electricity now of course we're
not talking about outright in an Urkel
primitivism we're not talking about
returning to surviving in Bronze Age
conditions those people from Sweden and
Denmark and Germany who came to live on
Tara Lee in third world conditions in a
village they would be able to take a
short trip to a major city and get
dentistry get access to a dentist
and that dentist office would have
electricity and modern standards of
Hygiene and modern medical science
they'd be able to take a short trip to
have access to a hospital and those
things when they wanted it but it was
not uncommon it wasn't hard at all to
find people who had rejected the kind of
life that dr. Drew Peterson is endorsing
here and he were much happier living by
the sight of a river and bathing in the
river every day instead of bathing in a
proper shower living in much more
primitive conditions and we're not gonna
do a damn thing about it either so it
doesn't really matter so well what are
we gonna do you're gonna stop like
having to eat you gonna stop having
electricity
you're gonna stop driving your cars
you're gonna stop taking trains it's
like you're not gonna stop using your
iPhones you're not gonna do any of that
and no wonder so so the flip side of
that is whenever you look at these
places whether it's save Laos or Cuba
you also have to look at the brutal
reality of what it is that most people
appreciate in terms of the enjoyment of
life in terms of the sensual pleasures
that define life I do not take myself as
a standard for this when I lived in
inventions the capital city of Laos when
I lived in that part of the world I was
riding my bicycle back and forth to the
archives back and forth to the library I
was spending my time studying books
politics history philosophy languages
and also by the way going to museums and
archaeological sites you know that was
what I liked to do at the time okay
let's be brutally honest about what it
is most people most people appreciate
about life in Laos or life in Cuba
okay alcohol drugs prostitution a lot of
prostitution in both of these countries
gambling
this is not what I do is my time it's
not what I appreciate but when you look
at the sensual indulgences that really
matter to people that they really found
we're including you know the exercise of
their sexual freedom in my case the
exercise of my intellectual freedom my
intellectual curiosity the pursuit of
Education the pursuit of learning but
for most other people that's a much
lower priority so
what you have to recognize is that even
okay even Cuba allows both you know Cuba
has jazz music Laos they have their own
local traditional music people care
about music and culture in ways that
they can participate in I don't actually
think the bulk of humanity is so
attached to individual car ownership to
commuting by car as someone like dr.
Jordan Peterson you know presumes now I
also do not adopt the extremist view
that somehow the automobile and the
cellular phone have to disappear from
21st century life in order to solve the
climate crisis I think that is
pseudoscience in the strictest sense of
the term you can do the math and you can
figure out that eliminating beef from
the human diet just beef without even
getting into fish and chicken if you
just eliminated beef from the human diet
enormous impact and you know if you
build more railroads and provide buses
there are tremendous differences we can
make without taking away people's
cellular phones you know Congress prison
all that sort of stuff you know because
of my family because of my career if you
lose your job like then you lose job you
get another one it's not the end of the
world you know you talk to your partner
you talk to your family maybe you lose
your partner it's not the end of the
world you know life is hard people lose
their jobs all the time people split up
all the time that's not the end of the
world what's the end of the world is the
end of the world the hammer is not very
well suited to the nail in fact the
solution they're proposing is wildly
laughably irrelevant to the particular
problem and as you can see they take
this all the way they are extremists in
that video clip they were explained to
you why you should be perfectly happy to
go to jail you should get over your
excuses for why it is you you don't want
to go to prison let me tell you
something guys the type of activism
extinction rebellion is engaged in it's
ineffective to say the least but about
the single most ineffective thing you
can do with your time is sitting in a
prison cell got a message here from ODS
he's in university studying something
like ecology or politics of I don't know
exactly what
major is something along these lines he
waits to be saying your video kind of
woke me up again from a false perception
of what the object of climate change
really is in my class alone there are
three climate activists that organized
the so-called climate strikes in my city
to gain awareness of the authorities
quote system change not climate change
close quote you know the deal there are
so many more effective and worthwhile
ways to change local government policy
in Switzerland than to strike school and
protest in the streets for two hours at
a time many times ever get pause here
the point is here Switzerland is a real
democracy they may be the best democracy
in the world it was the quality of the
system be a separate video to evaluate
that who's got a better democratic
system Switzerland or suite and go
through the Denmark go through the
leading lights for having a well
well-run democratic system here in
Taiwan we have a pretty good Democrat
existence too by the way we might rank
in the top ten here in Taiwan but
regardless your situation is
fundamentally different in Switzerland
where the government is open to hearing
your voice where you can influence
government policy in many ways
peacefully by participating in the
democratic system that's completely
different from the situation in Saudi
Arabia
okay sorry Arabia is an outright
dictatorship the situation in communist
China which is in some ways a
dictatorship but in some ways a very
different culture for public politics
than Saudi Arabia so there were degrees
of despotism there are degrees of
dictatorship and you have to recognize
how much more productively you could be
spending your time if you are lucky
enough to live in a well-functioning
democratic system like Switzer but
what's the problem here the problem is
that these protesters they've got a
hammer and they're looking for a nail
they're already emotionally attached to
this fixed idea the hallowed image of
protesting in the streets and they're
taking that idealized notion of street
protests and they're applying it to this
you know quote unquote system change
this is probably just a new coat of
paint over the old ante capitalism
this is crypto Marxism crypto communism
anti capitalism and trying to say well
let's not talk about ecology let's just
talk about bringing down the cool
cool capitalist system alright so again
attachment to the the method and then
the particular problem in this case an
ecological problem just becomes an
excuse to propound that radical and
radicalizing method I have a geography
teacher who wants to look at collapse
ology and Marxism to learn about
society's problems while telling us
students every second lesson about how
bleak society's future is even knowing
all the facts frankly better than
everyone around me he's even aware of
the too cynical solutions I gave in that
video starting about practical
technological solutions for climate
change I somehow got lured into some of
the motivating forces of the lies told
about climate change that it's all about
saving society from imminent collapse I
was the one to point out to these
activists what I consider the gravest
most irreversible threat to the planet
ocean acidification but I still somehow
got dissuaded from its importance so you
see how this works you live in a social
situation where certain types of
attitudes are being valorized are being
encouraged and when those attitudes are
linked to something as alarming and
motivating as the end of the world you
will inevitably start to get some of the
same behaviors that we associate with
fringe cult groups where human beings
are behaving in a manner that reflects
the fact that they believe the world is
about to end that's exactly the scenario
that extinction rebellion has embraced
with gusto you know maybe if you if you
increase child nutrition enough and and
you produce another I don't know 10
million geniuses as a consequence of
that and maybe we'll never figure out
what to do about global warming what dr.
jordan peterson is attached to here is
an idea of what it is to have a
meaningful life of what it is to have a
happy life and he wants to I mean to his
credit he wants to extend that to more
of the world he talks about how he wants
poverty-stricken people in Africa to
have this same quality of life for them
to also have cars and cellular phones
they can also live a life like people in
Detroit having to drive an hour and a
half to get anywhere and park in a
horrible parking lot in front of a
big-box store
whoo the assumption that America's
pattern of did all
that's what third-world countries need
is deeply defined but anyway he's
attached to a very different kind of
solution and then is misperceiving the
problem in relation to that preconceived
and Hallowed solution both of these
forms of extremism are predicated upon
very fundamental errors one of them is
predicated on an emotional attachment to
radicalism and the other is predicated
on a false attachment to a particular
type of life of reckless self-centered
self-indulgence
I think the reality is if you even look
at the type of self-indulgence that
really matters to people with an open
mind you'll realize that there are
people in third-world countries who do
live good a good quality of life a
meaningful life a rewarding life
both from their own perspective and from
ours people like to disrespect my truth
but the fact is that you know my name is
I don't know